Good
evening, everyone. I'd like to call to order the Andover Board of Education,
Board of Education regular meeting for March 13,
2024.
It is, 07:00.
And I'd like to, start the meeting with the pledge of allegiance.
As soon as you please, and send the pledge of allegiance. Ready?
I
pledge allegiance
Does anybody have any communications?
No.
>> Oh, okay. Yep. But we don't have any oh, comments from the public. Anybody
>> does anybody have any comments for us? Anybody?
Yes, sir.
>> Well, we're getting there. We're getting there. It'll make sense in a little bit. Does anybody else have any thoughts? Yes. I just think the ceremony we had tonight was just perfect. Thank you. It really shines a light on this and
encourages
everyone to take
part. So
thank you all for organization.
Thank
>> you very much. Thank you. Is there anybody else? No?
Okay. Alright. Any communications?
Okay.
Alright. And we
alright. So we need to approve the, regular meeting minutes of, February 14.
Did everybody have a chance to take a look at them? Mhmm. Does anybody have any,
corrections?
No?
I'm in a motion. I
>> second it. Okay. All in favor?
Aye.
Okay. Alright. I need to ask him. Okay. Alright.
So 6601.
Okay. Thank you. And
we need to approve the,
special meeting minutes of February 7 for the budget seminar public forum
that was held on February 7 at 07:00.
Any
corrections?
No?
>> None? Okay.
Hearing none, can I get a motion? Oh,
>> we don't need to approve these. That's right. It was just a budget workshop?
Okay. Alright. Okay.
Okay.
No. Let's Yeah. Do it anyways. It's okay. Do it anyways. Just do it anyways? Okay. Better. Okay. Okay. I'll I'll.
Alright. I'll move it to you approved. Okay.
>> Anybody want a second? Yes, I'm Okay. Thank you, Shannon. All in favor? Okay. And
one abstain. So 601.
Alright. Thank you, Jared. Thank you.
Alright. Does
anybody wanna add or delete any agenda items?
>> We might as well delete the capital project is the one between,
>> Robin and I were still working on. Is that not the one? Okay. That's not the one. Great. I just wanna make sure. Okay. Thanks, Shannon. You took it off. Thank you. Robin and I have been working. Okay. Thank you. Okay.
Celebrations.
Go ahead,
>> We have a lot to celebrate tonight, so we're very excited to have some special guests with us.
We have two important events that just took place. So I had mentioned, a couple months ago that our spelling bee was coming up, so I wanted to start with that.
Our finalist, Hillary Boris, who was represented to us at AES, then went to the state level to represent,
there. And this is her second year attending the state b, so we're very proud of her. And she actually,
went further this year than she did last year. So we were excited about that as well.
So congratulations to Hillary. We also have been working on our invention convention.
And so these inventors
work on coming up with a project from scratch. So they start with generating an idea,
what does that look like, building a prototype, planning, revising,
research.
This year, all of our fourth graders participated as part of our core curriculum.
And then we also offered it as an after school program to any students k six who would like to participate.
So we had 34 inventors we're very proud of.
Tonight,
we
had a showcase. So there was a judging this afternoon, and then tonight families got to come in and see where we announced our semifinalists.
So these semifinalists,
which I'll announce in a moment, will then represent us again at the state level. They'll record a video explaining their project and really have to, talk about their process.
And then if they move forward at that point, they will go to the finals, usually in May or June at UConn to represent,
us there. So we're very excited for all of their hard work as well as the staff. It takes a lot of hands to make this project happen.
So we are thankful to all of those staff. So tonight, I'd like to recognize our four semifinalists.
We have Weston Lateska.
We have Olivia Delaware.
We have Lily Godwin.
>> And And we have Winston Greenhouse.
And they all did a fantastic job.
When I talked, I don't didn't do the judging today. When I spoke to the judges, they definitely highlighted their ability to talk about their work, present to their projects, and then all of the kind of cyclical work that goes into it. It wasn't just the first idea, they put it on paper. They really worked through a lot of revision and thinking and shifts. So we're really proud of their work. So congratulations to them.
>> Weston,
now is when you can stand. Can you do us a favor? Can you tell everybody at the table what your invention was? Please. Stand up and speak nice and loudly because not everybody got a chance to see it. What did you invent? He's in kindergarten.
A Lego
>> lock table.
Nice. A Lego lock table. Need a Lego lock table. No. Not a Lego lock table.
The lock table. Lock table. I'm sorry. What did you need this for? What was the problem? It well, I love I can't.
I always want it. Every
day, I couldn't.
It's not allowed to bring it to the car. That's when he brought that
daddy even knows that. Let's go for three days. So he wasn't allowed to bring him to Mexico.
Okay. So
>> he made this. Awesome. So it holds his Legos,
and it goes on the left, and he can build on here. That way, what happens?
We can build on top of everybody. Fall off then? You know? They have. Uh-huh. Good job.
This was his poster
that he'll work on some more before he goes to the semis to add some things on there. We don't have a poster with you. Who'll have to? My grandpa. This grandpa, and he informed me today. That's my grandpa.
Job.
Do you wanna tell them what your invention was?
>> A chest fragrant, really hydrated.
You can drink water while.
>> Tell them, what did you need this for? What was your problem?
It
>> takes a long time to do that.
Drink quiet
on the
on the On the bench? The
board
so
>> you can you drink water. There. You can drink water while playing. You don't have to get off the ice. Can you see what you have for any other sports?
What'd you tell me today? Any sport that what? Any sport that's on me. But any sport that you gotta tell them. Any sport
that is a.
Any sport.
Good
job. Nice job. Thank you.
>> Miss Lily, you can probably tell them you probably don't need any help. You're not in kindergarten or first grade. So why don't you tell them and show them what you invented?
So my patient has a.
>> Steve, pay attention. This one. The
It's okay. You don't have to do the whole thing. Just give them an idea. What is it? What was your problem? What did you need a plate cover for? My problem was
>> that
parents
usually get frustrated when
their kids either slip or walk around their feet
on,
and it was like,
And scratching up the floor, but also
>> destroys the bottom of the cleats. Mhmm. So my intention is to
prevent that
from happening.
>> Mhmm. That's why you don't get in trouble with that. So
I can see the thing that goes across the top. Is it all the way on the bottom, I say? Sure. Sure. Take that off to show. Oh, great.
Nice. And was there anything like this?
Because remember, that's what they have to to do, do the research. Did you find anything really like this at all anywhere?
>> I found it's somewhere on
a patent website, but nothing on Amazon. Okay.
So they haven't made it yet.
We'll
Nice
just try to see if you show them that.
>> So Ryan mentioned of four kids that type their feet
in class,
and want to scrap the. I have another one for pencils
where I and I'll tap the pencil on the fence too.
Because I need to.
>> Another one so no one gets in trouble. That way they won't they they won't get in trouble for tapping and making a noise.
So that's part of our celebration. So thank you. Thank you to the teachers here who did work with the kids.
It's a lot of work. It's a lot of work for parents. It's a lot of work for the kids. As as Winston's grandma said, she knows.
And so it is a a big deal that that we've got so many budding
inventors here. So, also, this month is board appreciation month. So,
each of the board members here have two new books. And kids, yes, I know. Some of you are like, they got a book as a gift. They got two books as a gift
to read. They pictures of it. No.
One of them has kind of a funny name to it too, but it's a great book. It says how not to be a bad board member.
And what it does is kinda tell you what, like, to make sure you pay attention to, but it's a catchy title. And the other one is, a school board member's guidebook,
becoming a difference. They have homework to do too, boys and girls. They go to workshops. They have learning to do. And so we make sure that we assist them and give them those resources. And we thank each and every board member who gives their times,
every month. Some of you have done this for years and years,
to make sure that the kids have things like this for us to celebrate. So thank you to the board of education.
Everybody else, if we could give them a round of applause, that would be helpful.
Thanks. Well, thank you. And I do know that the the couple of members of the teachers union are here,
and they also would like to show appreciation.
So I'm gonna turn it over to Charlene and Melissa,
>> who are the presidents of the, teachers union. Yes. We're on behalf of not just the teachers, but the students too who work together, the whole school, who made you cards to show our gratitude
and thankfulness for all you do for us in in the building.
>> I think you guys are so much behind the scenes sometimes that it's nice to bring it to the students' attention. We appreciate your support and, you know, kind of throwing yourselves out there, you know, on behalf of of us and the school and everything that you guys do for us. So we really, really appreciate it, and we wanna say thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Melissa, can you share with them? Because you guys shared it with me, and I thought it was great how you decided,
>> about the kids makings. You pretty much did what? I would like ask. So missus Willer's got third grade since she's got a third grader.
That's for you. And
then,
>> miss Lendary got second grade, and she's got a second grader. I blended with two because Ty again was like, what about my dad? Was siblings.
>> They also needed to make their cars. Actually, yours. So
yeah. Sure. You get you're you're getting slotted.
Yeah. I'm in there.
That's fourth I
>> appreciated that. Thank you guys because they each got to adopt one of you, and I thought that was a cute idea that they got to each adopt one of you.
>> Soap was like, there's gonna be a surprise in the board meeting.
I like the junior schooler, aka modern. You
got one more.
It's on the back. Thank you. Return book.
>> Meowsing.
There was a second grader who claimed that you loved cats? I do. So
they made your.
Oh, it's great.
>> Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank the majors and the kids.
Thank you.
>> This is cool. This sick. It's it's all I put it on the hand.
>> Know. I want to see what it was. That's such a. Oh, that came out good.
It's gorgeous.
>> We will not be offended, teachers and audience, if at that point you guys say we're done. Because it's 07:15, and we're down to business now. So if you leave, we will not be offended. You are welcome. Stay. No. But that was best. Go home.
>> That's really thank the teachers from us. And Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. This was this was beautiful. Thank you. Thank you.
Here, Mike.
Thank
you. Thank you very much.
Thanks for all the time.
>> There you go.
You don't look tired at all. I got the I'm meowsing. We're gonna that's when
that was great. That was
alright. We're good? Okay.
Taylor, thank you for presenting that and and to all the teachers and Valerie for organizing that. I know that that's not No. They actually did that all in the phone. They came to us and said,
our kids,
>> have some stuff that they would like to do. And so Yep. No. By all means. Yep. No. I'm just talking about the invention convention and and all that. So thank you for for doing that.
Oh, dear. It was it was a a true pleasure to be one of the judges today. It was some it was intense. It was I know. Right? It's a
very serious project. It's great. Thank you.
Alright. So on to
chairperson's oral report.
So I just wanna thank everyone for
putting together the liaison outlines.
Shannon, I'm still waiting. I need to get from the CIP.
I have medical issues with my family. I apologize. Fine. And we're gonna get to it on the agenda what we're gonna do forward. But if you could just get it to me, that would be great.
I haven't had a chance to I didn't attend the I'm just keeping in in
line with the, monthly meeting schedule that we put together.
My month is this month.
I didn't have a chance to attend the board of selectman meeting on Monday.
When I went to look for it, it wasn't posted yet on YouTube. And Ashley Paula King was here today. She was one of the judges, and I asked her.
And it wasn't posted yet because the the woman over at the town hall that does that is on vacation this week. So I have several meetings to watch this month, and what my plan is to do is just to get back in touch with you guys at the next meeting and provide you with that update. So I will do that. And I just wanna remind Steve that you're scheduled for April, so thank you. Can't wait. Yeah.
And I just want everybody to kinda put on their, schedule and on their radar. The KH CAPS convention is November fifteenth and sixteenth.
It's a two day
convention. I know I know, Caitlin, you've gone in the past. I think Jerry, I know Shannon
and I went in November last
year and and Mike.
It's it's
excellent to go. If you can go both days, great. If you can just go to one, fantastic.
It's a Friday and a Saturday.
You know, it's extremely informative.
It's a great opportunity.
You know, they have workshops. It's a good way to to network and to meet other board members in other towns.
So I I just would really strongly encourage everybody to kind of put it on their calendar and make every attempt to, to go to one, if not both days.
The step up ceremony, do you know when that what day it is? I know you're gonna get to that in your report,
but
I would also encourage
everybody to attend
the end. I mean, if you think about it, we only really have
two more months before the end of school.
So
if everybody can put that day on their calendar,
I know
>> So we have two days. We have the May 23 will be the evening of the arts. Yes. So I'll share that one. Yep. Board members have many of you as parents, but also you're welcome to come.
At that point too of the book fair, if any board members would like to volunteer,
at the checkout station, always an option. Yep. And then typically for step up, because the last day of school
shifts, we think we gotta be done with snow. Right? Yeah. At this point, so we are planning typically that Tuesday, which is the June
11.
Okay. I
would just, next month, I will certainly confirm. It kind of lines up to when DARE finishes and then
barring no more Right. Snow and all of that, but that's tentatively,
>> usually when we do that. That right at that last week. Okay. Is that, like, the graduation or is that The sixth grade step up. Yeah.
So, again, just keep June 11 kind of in mind barring any unforeseen
>> No more snowstorms.
Is it at night? No. It's during the day. It's usually night. During the day. Yes. Yep. Yes.
>> K. I know.
If we It's okay. Kid is in that class. Yeah. I know.
So
>> just,
again, it's I've gone,
and,
I wasn't able to go last year, but I think it's really important that we go to it. We're the board of ed. I understand it's during the day. I understand we work. But if everybody, you know, can just put it on their calendars and make every attempt to go, it's a wonderful ceremony if if no one if you haven't had a chance to go. But, again, just to just to keep it on your calendar and on your radar.
And then I have been talking with Val and Taylor about having students kind of attend meetings. I know we had a you know, our students here from the
Invention Convention.
But I was talking with Val and Taylor about having students come to the meetings to
give a presentation,
talk about a project that they're doing in their class. So I know Taylor has reached out to a couple teachers
and even families to recognize the students, to recognize the families.
So I believe at our April meeting, we're gonna have
the kindergarten class is gonna be here or some students, and they're gonna give us a presentation. So
again, just trying to incorporate
more students and families into what we do. So I thought that that would be a great idea to do that. So I'm excited for April. We'll have a little presentation,
and we'll do that under
celebrations.
And then just the calendar of events in town just to kind of you know,
there's the fire department, which is our volunteer fire department, has their Easter plant and bake sale coming up from March 27 to the thirty first. It's a fundraiser that they do, and, you know, it supports the fire department.
And, again, they're a volunteer organization.
So,
you know, if you can stop by, make a donation, buy a plant. They've got some really great baked goods there too. So
that's all I have.
Superintendent
Valerie?
>> Most of what I have actually is
in
line with liaison reports with somebody else or your board business. Okay. So, you know, short and sweet here,
in terms of we're coming to an end here at the end of the year with, quite a few grants.
So, we worked with classroom teachers. Terry and I sit down pretty much daily now and try to figure out,
you know, if we ran short of spending from one category, I have to put in for approval with the state and ask them, hey. If we didn't spend this much here, do we have permission to spend this much here?
And so,
we wait for approval on that.
If we go back,
everything that started in twenty twenty, twenty one school year is fully expired except for one from 2021
that we're finishing for the end of June.
I've been working with the curriculum and instruction,
subcommittee
here, liaisons,
because,
there's certain amount of that money that had to be earmarked,
and it had to be earmarked for learning. So, we've got some things on the burner there. Hopefully, by next month, we will be able to, let you know where we're going with that.
The
library will get a few new things as a result of
some of the money that was in there that was able to be reallocated.
Melissa Litaska is the librarian. She's working with me on the needs here because it's not just books.
It is seating
for the littles over there
that was approved because of the fact that we do have so many littles here and guest readers and things like that. They have approved us taking a little portion of what was in there for something else that we didn't completely use and,
address,
a curriculum and instruction component and making a place in the library since this is one of our gathering spots for families and community people to use. So we are very lucky they approved that. And those like Caitlin and Steve who sometimes get the little table
will be grateful
that,
making all four of these tables the same size is actually part of that project because
next year,
you know, we do have obviously, we've been, increasing class sizes, and so we use these for the older kids. And so fourth, fifth, and sixth needs tables that are comfortable for them too. So you will see in the next couple of months some transformation of some of the seating in here to make it more littles friendly for Melissa, and that'll be as a result of that 2021 grant.
'22,
everything had been expended
in that year. There was no new ones that were long standing for us to consider,
and we are looking at the only other big one
that would be coming to a close that we've been making sure that we can utilize effectively
is the after school grant.
Because the after school grant does expire,
things have to be spent by the end of the school year, and then
all the paperwork gets done on that grant by September.
So
what we'll do is we're keeping track and keeping up to date on a daily basis with where our spending is in each category so that in the end, if there's something else in a supply line item, if there's something else in a vendor line item, in a professional services,
that we could definitely make sure that we use that, you know, to in the best interest of the kids
so we don't give back a penny of it. So you know where you guys are
right now? Or That that's hard to say. We think that's
you mean in terms of what will be left in it?
I'm just curious. If there are different percentages in different lines For each category. There's gonna still be some left in the salary line item there that I will have to ask to move to something else. Yep. And that is because and I've said this all along. We were very grateful for the fact that our staff after school,
they were willing to work for the fair, but not
amount of money. And some other school districts that got the grants, they paid a lot more to their staff, and the money went to the adults then. And our staff was not like that at all. And so we definitely will have some money left in there.
And the
outside vendors coming in,
they call it professional services.
Mhmm. When we have, like, the special guests that come in where you are paying
a place to come in and do an event. Because we do so many monthly events, one a month, for families where, with the exception of when we had the art night, Mona Lisa Studios came in, things like that, we still have money for.
So I'm gonna try to work with the state and see, you know, how far out the actual events can take place. Because if we can have events that occur over the summer that are already paid for and then our family events,
will that qualify? So that's kind of what we're doing is making sure that, things are approved. We will have to do a rewrite with that one.
And so, unfortunately,
it'll end at the end of the year, but that's that's where we are with the grants. And
the rest will fit into another category now, unless anybody has any questions.
Anybody have any questions?
No. Okay. Thank you, Val.
Valer, take it away.
>> Alright.
So we have just a couple of dates to start with the simple things. Just a reminder,
we have professional development this week, which we are
really diving into bookworms, which you'll see on here is the curriculum that we've chosen to pilot for next year. So that's the reading and writing,
curriculum.
So we really most of our professional development time,
for the next couple sessions will go towards that.
As part of the grant, we are able to get professional development services from the the organization itself. So that's exciting,
as that goes into next year and some of that coaching piece. But to start, we need to get familiar, of course, with all the materials and things like that. So we'll be working through a lot of that on Friday.
But I did wanna mention we are working,
with CEA. They also,
offer professional development,
at no cost to districts. And so one of the professional development sessions our teachers were interested in was integrating,
more play into our upper grade classrooms.
Our pre k and k and one do a fantastic job. We've done a lot of work with that. I talked a lot about our NIAC accreditation,
but, we're just always kinda pushing ourselves to be developmentally appropriate across the board.
Not sacrificing rigor, but how do we just appeal to kids' natural instincts to play?
So CEA will be coming in April.
That's the last
professional development day of the year to, half day to provide that. So that's exciting.
We also did just mention with bookworms. I wanted to let you know we have been visiting in Marlborough, I think they mentioned. I'm not sure last month that they are already using that program, and then Hebron's kind of in that decision making progress. So we'll continue to work alongside
those two as well as seeing where they go.
And there's a a curriculum committee as well between the three districts that is continuing that work into this summer.
Speaking of NIAC, we have officially submitted our reaccreditation
that was February 1, which means are we now wait for our window to open, which will be May 1. So they can come to visit us between May 1 and
November 1.
Now, of course, we're closed. We're you know, our our school is closed during the summer, so it's an odd time. It's just the time we've always had for years and years and years. We are all crossing our fingers we get that visit in May or June just because,
in our minds, a little trickier to start with an accreditation visit with brand new babies in in September, but, you know, we'll be ready if we do. So they don't we only know two days in advance. It's it's no,
>> they just show notice. Yeah. And that's not even I think it's, like, thirty six, you know, something crazy. So
>> so I'll keep you guys posted on that, but we're excited. The team's ready. Kindergarten's ready for the accreditation and then pre k for re accreditation. They'll do that in the same time.
And then that leads us to pre k enrollment. So I know that's kind of we talked about it briefly, but we are well underway.
So right now, we are, about 51 students either enrolled or in the enrollment
process.
And then additionally,
this week, three to four new students that have reached out for information. So
if you do that math, that's that's more than three classrooms, which is what we have now. So I would
recommend perhaps if the board is on board and vow to maybe put that on the April agenda just to kind of figure out what direction we wanna go and and how opening a fourth classroom, what that might look like.
Is that all in town kids also? It is not all in town. It's in town and out of town.
Of the 51,
I believe there are
four. Four out of town. Four out of town.
Money out of town. Yeah. I
anticipate the remainder of our enrollment will be out of town as Hebron's lottery is closed. I'll as we get into that spring season, and now everyone's, like, looking for
for enrollment. We may still get a few more Andover students, but, typically,
>> that's what will happen in the coming months. So Is this also because of the the kindergarten,
>> the Yeah. That's what age. For us, it's not a huge impact in terms of numbers, but for surrounding towns, it's a huge impact. So
they're definitely having way less pre K spots available. Okay. And and we offer fantastic program here, and I think our reputation is building. We have some out of town students already, so they have friends and and, you know, they talk and move on. A lot of siblings. So And what's our what's the max,
number of students per pre K?
>> So 18 is the maximum, that you can have. We like to go at 15 because should students as we know like this year move in and need additional services. We have to move a kid out and which we don't wanna do so, 15 is typically where we like to sit.
>> So Taylor
on that, I wanted to if I if I could interrupt for just a second. One of the things that we do,
obviously, we do enrollment projections,
but I go back to the data and try to figure out since I've gotten here. Like,
if this school at one time had so many kids, you know, in in the high three hundreds and four hundreds, kind of where did that dip occur?
And so I went back. You get this enrollment report every month right here that shows you right now 2018
to 2024.
So I went back and pulled the one before
that they would have gotten at the board meetings all the way back,
let's see, six years earlier
to see kind of was there a single
incident that occurred
where we lost all those kids so we could maybe plan for future. And it's funny because if you go back to 2012 school year,
going into the 2013
school year, there were 25 kids over the summer that moved.
So from the close of school to the open of school, they were down 25.
The following year, they were down 26.
The following year, they were down 30.
The following year, they were down 23.
So it looks like for about six years, the trend was that people were moving out of Andover in the summer because that's when everybody with kids moves. They don't wanna disrupt their school year. So they sell their houses in the summer, they move. And it looks to me like, possibly,
during those six years when the house is sold, they weren't selling to families.
And so when I look now at our new enrollment report
every year, you'll see from 2018,
they stayed about the same. They went down four kids over the summer.
From 2020 to '21,
that is an event. We were closed that summer. It was COVID, and a lot of those kids either moved or they were homeschooled. So that's an oddity. We can't use that year.
We look at twenty one to '22.
Could just be the kids came back. It could be that nobody moved in, that we went from one eighty three to one ninety three. So, again, I'm not really considering much with that.
But the end of '22 to '23, we were up seven kids. And I know for a fact we had a family that moved with four kids, so this was definitely people moving in with children.
Okay?
And then the '23
'22 to the '23 school year, we were up six.
And so it it it's very promising for us moving forward that it looks like and I've asked about the house sales Mhmm. And the houses that have been selling, when I ask at town hall, yes. A lot of the houses that are selling it, if you go online, you'll see they've got multiple bedrooms, and people are, in fact, moving in with children.
We also look at the family dynamic and structure
of our new kids when they come in, particularly preschool.
We have a lot of kindergarteners
who are the oldest in their family,
and so there's one or multiples
coming after them. And we have preschoolers that are the oldest and babies.
So when we talk about potentially needing to consider our early classrooms,
you know, blossoming,
we anticipate that that's going to be a need for us moving forward for years to come.
So
I just wanted to bring that out there because
when we talk in April, we're not just planning for a
little surge in influx as a result of other neighborhoods,
you know, that border us. We're talking about our own families that are gonna be filling those spots.
And we probably, even with multiple rooms, could wind up not even having space at some point to fill. I will say for full transparency there, there are four out of towners,
but there are six kids
whose parents do not reside here, but they work here.
And so we count those as our Andover families because we've always had that, staff members, kids who do attend here. They pay, but who do attend here. And so they stay with our Andover because we say we own them.
And oftentimes,
about three times in the past nine years, those families actually then paid tuition and kept their children here. So they're ours. They're not just necessarily staying for a year. So I really wanted to go over that. If anybody does wanna copy this, let me know. I'll be glad to give that to you. Thanks,
>> Sarah. Sorry. Yeah. No problem. Yeah. So that 51, we're looking at about 60 kids when you think of work in a certain zone, and we're we're early in the season really still.
So any questions for me?
Are we looking at meeting the,
income financial requirements?
>> Yeah. Pretty good.
We don't anticipate right now that we'll have to seek. Sometimes we have to use out of town students to meet those, grants. And right now,
it's it's early because we're just getting all of those income things, but right now, it's looking fairly good. So
Where would the where where's the book?
>> Well, I was gonna ask if you'd build one. That's not
on the No. Not on April. We we do have space. I mean, we have to do some moving around, but it will go it would go in the same quarter Okay. So that they would share. Space again. Yep. Yeah. Yep. Right now, there's a kindergarten room there.
>> Build it. So we have to build a new now. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Go Yeah. No. Oh, I was just gonna say on your upcoming dates, I have just one thing to add only because I know April 4,
there's a music,
like, state
something,
and we have I don't remember how many kids are coming.
Four or five? Yes.
>> The MCEF? Yep. Yeah. Whatever it's called. I believe we have five. Now that you said it, we have both chorus and band students. You're right. They will attend, at the state level. They go with missus Wardett.
It's a really cool experience. They get to learn music in that moment, taught by other musicians, other programs, and then they perform.
So it's a cool opportunity. Missus Gordette nominates students to go forward, and then we wait and hope. And and, I think I think you're right. Are you saying five? I don't know. I
think there's five as well, going that day. So that's exciting. Thank you for
reminding Does
anybody have any questions for Taylor?
>> Okay.
Alright. Financial report.
If go to the middle of your packet, you can see the
the expenditure report by object.
The numbers look like we're right on track when I review these numbers.
Did anybody
have any questions that they had have you had a chance to review? Is
there something I can answer tonight for you?
>> When do you expect to present
some questions transferred?
I know that normally happens over the next three months.
>> Transfers
In like, between items or yeah. Between the object.
Probably April or May. I mean, I don't I'm not seeing anywhere right now where I have to actually look at moving
money between objects
at this point, at this moment.
And, Terry, I know in the past you have offered that if we did have any questions to email you, is it still available? Absolutely. So that okay. Yeah. And and if even if you wanna email me the questions, and then I'll be happy to answer them in a public forum just to let you know everybody has the same answer. Okay. Thank you. And on that same note, with when we do the transfers, I prefer to have those emails to us prior to any past we received them on the night of the board meeting. Yeah. I'd like to be able to look at it before we move. We'll make them part of the packet. Awesome. Thank you. You're welcome. Right.
Any other questions?
>> Thank you. Alright. Thanks, Teri.
Alright.
Liaison reports. I
know we're kinda still working on
who's who's like, who's who with this liaison,
but I know
Brie, I know you're the school readiness liaison, and I believe you attended a a meeting or no? Did you since The last one was February. So when I reported on Okay. Alright. When is the next one?
They're
>> quarterly ish. Quarterly. Okay. They're fine. Month. They're I'm sorry. That's why I was there. No. So I believe we have one more. I think it's April. Okay. Alright. Okay. Yes. So do you think it'll be before the
board meeting, April 17? Hold, please.
Happy to look that up While for
>> you're looking at that, I'll just provide a PTA update.
The PTA is fast and furious on
raising money to build a new playground. We are at, I believe, 19,000 we've raised so far, and our goal is about 30,000.
So we are doing very well with that. We appreciate everyone's help and support with that.
We have a trivia night coming up at Andover Pizza, Friday night. I know some teachers are gonna be coming and testing their knowledge. So if anyone is interested, tickets are $20 We'd love to have you there.
Game starts at seven, and
we will be doing a pasta dinner on April
25.
That will be coming up.
And we have some really great raffle items that we'll be starting to raffle off then and then doing the second half of the evening of the art. So
our next our next PTA meeting is April 1.
So thank you. April 8. April okay. April 8. Okay. So hopefully then And the eighteenth. We do two in April. April 8 is April vacation.
That's still meeting.
>> So maybe that's why it's now the eighteenth.
Okay. I'll make sure Brie has the right date. What's that? What's the date? Okay. April 1 is bundled.
>> That's our PTA meeting. Yes.
Okay. So, hopefully, the school readiness,
Hopefully, if if there's a Yeah. An update,
I'm sure we will provide us one. So thank you.
Okay.
And I know we do still does anybody have any liaison reports? I know CIP go ahead, Shannon. CIP met. Okay.
>> And
we basically went over a significant amount of,
what could be future requests from public works. So we worked on a lot of,
stuff
with JTU.
And then as part of the policy report, Val and I met to review a plan that she has to submit to the state. Okay.
That may require us to create
or update policies. We may actually have to delete policies, so we'll be looking at that in April. Okay.
We might have to yeah. That's them. We might have to replace the current policies regarding personnel,
the four one one one. I can go through the voucher series.
And then we've got two other policies,
yeah,
that are mandated,
that are that
are mandated,
and we'll present over the next three months. Okay.
One is about the age of attendance to change the birth date to the for the five year olds. Okay. And the second one is about suicide prevention.
Okay. And finally,
I know Taylor is working on the kindergarten policy
with other principals,
so we might be able to get that for April also.
Okay. Thank you. Sure. Are there dates when those are required to be updated by? One of them is they're
required to be updated by June.
Okay. So we have we'll try to Okay. To span them out.
July 1. Okay. But we have to do it by our June Correct. June meeting.
Yep. And
>> what's the kindergarten policy? What is that? Just Continue to
>> Instead of thirty first, that's September then. And about the waiver. So Oh, okay. How about that look for the board of ed. Yep. Jerry and Mike I worked with Valerie on a
>> mandate from the state of Connecticut increasing education diversity plan.
We had to come up with a plan and submit it to the state.
Valerie
>> It's on the agenda. We'll talk about that one too.
Sorry about this in general? Yep.
Go ahead. So
>> it's very
nicely laid out, very clear, very concise.
And
the other thing we'd have to eventually do is on that policy, you know, about
we tend
ex ex
introduce. We're
gonna have to come up with something for that.
And I thought the really neat thing that we have,
which is a real gem,
is we have two parts of this library.
One for us, for our own professional development is back there on top shelf.
This is part of your plan. Thank you, Jerry.
>> Great. This is new. You just call her back. Yep. I know.
>> This is new. You guys will be able to actually sign these out of the library for the members.
Okay. And where's the blue book?
>> That's on I'll have a copy of this. Okey dokey. And this is that?
>> So go over here.
All professional
learning books that
staff can avail themselves of those books.
Cool. Check them out
and
maybe come up with some new ideas.
Great.
>> So thank you, Valerie, for for working with me on that. Thank you. And and the newest ones there are the diversity books
for staff to go along with what will be the policy on this plan. Mhmm. So
there's about, what, 10 or 12 for there? I think there were 10 or 12 new ones in there for them, and there will be
10 for you guys.
These two that you can take home are also up there, and then there'll be other ones. So Is everybody there to?
>> They are. Yep. Yep. Yep. So because we we have to approve it. Yep.
>> Michael, we divided and conquered.
Michael? Yeah.
What are we working on, Michael? I don't think The cat out the bag? No. No. What's happening? Oh, come on.
In general,
reading.
Reading.
I'll leave it with that.
>> Cryptic at that. Cryptic. We are working on something, a way to engage better
relations and promote reading. Mike's a great asset because he's a teacher.
And so,
you know, I mentioned before about grants expiring, and we're really trying to figure out what the best way to do that. And Mike's got some of the littles that we were talking about with the library.
So,
hopefully, that'll be on April. But he's been working. So, hopefully, that'll be on April's. How do we support science of reading? Because that's the big thing this year.
>> Wonderful. Thank you. That's exactly what I was envisioning, us talking about the liaisons and what we've been working on and and providing updates. So thank you for for doing that. Thank you for your work on that. Shannon, thanks for what's that? I said I'm mine's item. Okay. You're
gonna wait till then. Okay.
Alright. Wonderful.
Okay. Okay. Next on the agenda is the executive session.
>> So can I have a motion to go into executive session? No. Go into executive session. What do I need to invite? Invite.
>> Okay. So I make a motion
to an go into executive session and invite
Valerie and Terry.
>> No.
Okay. No? That's it? Okay.
I'll second that. Thank you.
All in favor? Aye.
K. Alright. Yes.
>> 700. 70.
This one? Yeah. You record it. You're good. And then hit record.
We're already recording. Oh, it is recording? Okay.
K. Okay.
There you go. Okay.
>> Alright. So item number nine, item for discussion.
Item a is audit update.
Val, do you wanna provide the update? Or Well, Terry has it here. Okay.
>> So everybody has a copy of the audit. I know that it, you know, was presented at another town meeting already, so I know that it's out there already on the town side
website.
The audit came back, and it was good news on the town side in terms of some of the things that
we had had as repeats. They were fixed on the town side. When I say we, mean the town of Andover.
So that part was good.
The audit itself was done a little bit sooner than it had been, which was also good.
And so I know that that did make
town hall pretty happy.
For us, we did have a couple of glitches and citations.
We had a couple of glitches and citations,
because we have a new software system and a new business manager, and,
there was a learning curve there. You'll see there's three things that they talk about. The three things that they talk about in the audit had to do with,
just us making sure that we come up with with the corrective action plan to address the issues of,
properly
using
the Edmunds the new Edmunds software system.
There was definitely some difficulty there.
We've moved forward,
the corrective action plan,
to address the three findings from Mahoney and Sable in terms of making sure that our ledger was maintained in Edmonds properly
will include
utilizing support from the software vendor.
It's
been a year now that we've absolutely been with them, and so we need to make sure that we have things properly posted in the accounting system.
And so this is a finding. It's a finding that we agree with.
To do so,
you know, Terry will speak to you in just a second about making sure that she addresses that from her point. She'll just speak quickly to that.
The second finding had to do with reconciliations
that
used to be performed outside the accounting system and now are performed within the accounting system. Again, there's that darn accounting system,
so we need to make sure that there's stronger
use of that, stronger support for that,
and making sure that,
the stuff that's entered into the accounting system is entered
accurately in a timely fashion. And so we will
use a consultant
to work with the business manager and make sure that that's done
moving forward
in the proper manner.
And the last one of the
the
the things that needed to be corrected, statements of concurrence or nonconference, we definitely concur with. The finding had to do with
reconciliation at the end. The year end closing procedures have been
challenging.
The fact that this year's
year should end on time, we shouldn't see that. And what the auditor wants to see is to make sure that the trial balance at the end of the year and the work expenditure
reports
and the closing procedures at the end of the year are complete, up to date, and utilized in a
not only effective manner, but a timely manner.
So this was sent over to Eric.
Once this was put together, this corrective action plan, I did then consult with the auditor and say, you know, hey. Are we adding anything, missing anything? Does this look good to you to address what you gave us as your findings? And he said it does. It has been sent already over to
Eric Anderson for him to submit
and to the OPM, which is the office of policy management. So then Terry
will kind of quickly speak to what that looks like. Those are the things dealt with with the corrective action plan. And from our point of view, Terry, what does that look like?
>> Going forward, we will
we'll be utilizing
the
help through the software system
in addition to
having someone
as a second set of eyes on the information that is being generated by my office
just to ensure that that everything is accurate going forward.
Bank reconciliations
are done on a monthly basis,
and
and the
when this year or when this year ends, we'll make sure that the closing process is followed.
>> Okay. And, Terry, will you make sure
that
the board is updated monthly when you do your financials? Yes. Okay.
>> Great. So just the just if I can real quick for the
finding three
because this is, book number eight, a
repeated
finding. So I I don't want to.
No. It's repeating for the staff of That's
that says 2022.
Right. That's right. Alright.
But
the recommendation recommended the town and school district develop a formal reconciliation process,
and it says that we will implement your
I would like to know when that process has been created or been
thinking of, like, does that process exist currently? If not, when is it going to exist?
I wanna know that because they're recommending that we do it, so I wanna know what's been done. Okay.
>> On the board I mean, on the agenda
then from here moving forward, next to financial report, it will say update on effective action plan.
You guys satisfied with that? Yeah. That's good. Okay.
>> Thank you. Does
anybody have any questions
or
on that?
>> Yeah. Actually, I know why it screwed up just so you know.
The number on here does not match the number on here. This says 2022003.
This is 2023003.
>> Mhmm.
This is the last stage?
It's been good. 11?
No.
>> Oh, I see. This one type of red. Yep. Yeah. Because that this, prior to your finding, twenty twenty two zero three, significant deficiency in Gotcha. Was over here. So there's one
>> yeah. That one, has to be fixed. I'll let Eric know that so that when it gets sent to OPM,
yeah. So that our reference is that All three of them should say 20230102.
Have a typo on our audit correction plan. Yes. So well, the draft has been sent to him. So as of yesterday, so I will let him know tomorrow.
>> Okay. Alright. Thank you.
Okay.
Next item, superintendent's
IDB plan. Yep.
No.
No. I need you.
So
>> I know that Shannon had alluded to this a little bit earlier as did Jerry. Shannon was talking about policies that we might have to come up with, and Jerry was talking about,
when we said we expanded the library to include diversity books.
The ones that we were choosing
for
look. There we go.
The ones that we were choosing
to put in the
what's that?
>> Oh, you have one there. Okay. No. The books that we were choosing were so already have one. I have three. You got one. Okay. If you have extra, don't you pass them over? Okay. Cool. So IED stands for increasing educator diversity.
Okay. And every
district in the state of Connecticut
was was told that,
you know, moving forward, we not only need to have our policies in place, but we also have a state initiative now,
to increase the diversity of educators,
teachers within all of the schools. Now the difficulty was
and and I did meet with about 25
small district superintendents that I meet with on a regular basis.
The difficulty is that I said, we have a problem oftentimes in small districts,
just getting applicants.
And so, when they do start to talk about,
you know,
really striving to increase the applicants of color,
we have to look at
our policies and our procedures and say,
what can we do differently
that we're not already doing to increase that pool?
And I really wanted to come up with something that was not only reasonable,
but realistic for us with our size. And so I I promise that I didn't put anything in here that was just words on a paper that we couldn't do. There are three areas that had to be addressed with the plan.
That was recruitment,
you'll see on the bottom there,
hiring and selection,
and retention.
And
they gave us a template, and they said, you need to make sure that you include these things on here, your mission statement, your vision statement, your theory of action, which is an if then statement. If we do this, then this will be the outcome. That's what a theory of action statement is.
What your diversity team would look like even in a small district, you need to identify who that team would be. Even Even though we don't have a central office, we do still have to identify who that team would be. And then what your goal would be, who manages the goal,
and what strategies you'll use. When it comes to recruitment and we looked at what we already do,
that was difficult because we already do post our jobs in places. We already do have a policy in place. Where we're advancing this is
one of the new state laws says that every single person in your building, educator, who is on a hiring committee needs to be a little bit further trained in terms of
the
the background.
Do they understand implicit bias?
Do they understand what it means to create an environment that's more inviting for,
potentially,
people of color?
And
so
the strategies for the recruitment
itself,
we are going to expand our network of where we place ads.
If you look at universities,
there are offices at UConn designed solely for
students of color and
networking for particular jobs.
And so instead of just posting it and sending something, for example, to UConn, we also now gonna include that office
and making sure that it's posted there, their diversity office.
We're going to make sure that we not only come up with a policy, as Shannon alluded to before in terms of this other thing, but our policy is great. But let's look at shipments in caves as well and see what we can pull out of there to
ensure that we are in line with,
actually, the policies on school climate as well.
We wanna make sure that we utilize
some job fairs.
There are job fairs that are,
you know,
more
in line to an audience of
more diverse candidates.
And so
because there's about 25 of us that are on the same boat in terms of small towns,
we're gonna be able to do this together. And so I've reached out and said,
tell me. Tell me where you send it to. And so this is gonna be ongoing.
What are our indicators of progress gonna be? This, for me, was the hardest. Not saying what we will do, saying how we'll measure it. And so we're on track if
the applicant pool increases
and the increase is specifically
a higher percentage of applicants of color. Not just we got five more people to apply, did we attract anybody of color?
If we're able to solicit feedback from candidates regarding the recruitment process, whether someone is hired or not who falls under this category, be able to say, you know, how did we do? What was or wasn't attractive
to applying in Andover
in hopes that we'll get an honest answer?
Maybe someone says, I I looked at your student enrollment, and I didn't feel that it, you know, was something that reflected a place I wanted to work. It's not diverse enough. Then we can't control that.
But if someone says during the hiring process, when you interviewed me,
I didn't feel comfortable, I didn't feel like I would fit in here, then that's something we can address and do something about. So I felt that that was a good one. Regular discussions occurring
with all of us in the community,
especially during the recruitment process,
and documenting and keeping track with Fidelity of if we're implementing this. Community BOE,
admin school community annual.
>> So is there, like, some annual report or No. Or whatever? We oh, yes. We will have to annually update them on the
implementation at this point. Now for us, unfortunately, it may look like we say we have no openings. We weren't able to post any positions. We have no available teachers. That may be what I have to tell them.
But at the end of the year, they say, hey. How many positions did you have open? And I say, two. And they say, how'd you do?
I need to be able to say to them, you know what? We did this, this, and this, and, unfortunately, we had zero applicants.
That is a measure for us then.
And they may say to us, okay. You know? Potentially, you can do something else. And that's when we would reach out and say, well, what else did somebody else do? I looked online, by the way. There's a dashboard
on the State Department of Ed website.
And in fifteen years, we've only had one,
educator here, who falls under any sort of, person of color. It's from a student teacher perspective, how are those
like, is there anything with recruitment for student teachers? We don't choose our student teachers. So the best that we can do there with the university is to say to them, hey.
We are a a student population with only 10% minorities.
However,
we actually are asking you, and I'm sure a lot of other towns are going to as well, but can you please
consider
sending
student teachers here
that potentially
might have been a little bit more drawn to an inner city?
Because we would love to have them. And so we don't pick them usually, though. They just assign them here. So I'm not sure how much say we have in that. Okay. But we certainly can let them know at the start of every season. This is part of our plan, and we encourage you to talk to your student teacher candidates
>> and and encourage them if they live close by, you know, to to consider an adult. And and so and that's and I like, it's it's kinda to produce some of those student teachers. They're looking for placements
that focus on specific
curriculum areas or topics or programs.
Yep. So if that doesn't align with what your school is doing They're not interested.
Hoop in the.
>> It is. But that's why I say we don't really have control over that. It's not that no one wants to go to a small town too, but if somebody lives in Waterbury,
>> they're not necessarily gonna be a ship coming in the.
>> Also, with the lack of turnover in our school, they're not really stepping into a job. There's no job I'm sorry, Sharon. Yes. That's a good point. And I'm sorry. You you probably have said this, but this gets reported to the to the State Department State Department of Ed. Okay. And this is new? This is this is Brand new. Yes. This is brand new. Okay. So every year, we're we report
>> what we've okay. This is due by Friday,
but the policy that supports this, the board has time. And that's why when Shannon and I met, it's like, we wanna be very careful because we don't wanna write a policy either that we can't live by. Right.
So this is going Friday. This is not This is going Friday, which we have. Right. But
the policy,
we wanna look at Okay. What's wrong with ours. And and there is stuff wrong with ours, and let's look at the template and see how we can fix it. Okay. We
have to look at resources and just be honest with ourself, what would we have to do to make this happen, additional posted locations, contact secured,
potentially, you know, allocating a staff member to attend those,
recruitment fairs.
And sure, if that costs money to send someone because you need a sub, we have to do that. We have to look at our procedural handbook, make it available district wide, and then say to the staff here, hey. Help us, diversity team. If you were a person of color reading this, would you find we're missing something?
And have a marketing tool for recruitment fairs,
and really be able to use that as to why we would be a place to draw somebody to work here.
Mitigation, and I won't go through all of it when we get to the others, but risks and mitigation, that is the section where you say, if this doesn't work, what are you foreseeing as a potential reason why?
Timely posting of the positions to ensure ample time,
understanding that applicants don't always disclose
their demographic information, and they don't have to. So if we get applicants and it doesn't say on there, they do not have to disclose that. Maybe our policy is, instead of saying, well, we're gonna find out by asking them, maybe if we've only gotten 10 candidates then and we think potentially somebody's not disclosed it and they might be, maybe we make a concerted effort to interview all 10 men so that nobody is unfortunately
disqualified
because we didn't know whether they were a person of color or not.
And so we rarely get more than 10 where we could say, no. We're just taking the top three and interviewing them. So I would rather interview 10 and say, that way, there's nobody that that is turned away at the first round.
And we can then say with Fidelity, we have made sure that everybody had an equal opportunity.
And then communication engagement efforts. When we move to hiring and selection,
this is where,
Jerry mentioned, we've now created the library of written and online resources for hiring committee and other staff to increase diversity awareness, and we went through,
really handpicking
those books
so that,
they are here. They're available to staff. They're available to you guys if you want them, and they will be a source of resources prior to a hiring event.
And I say hiring event because we don't know when that will happen here. We don't do it on a regular doc basis.
The State Department of Ed as of this year also has a mandatory
video,
which is eighty minutes long. And everybody who's on your hiring committee, it deals with implicit biases, and it deals with diversity.
They have to watch that map. So
Taylor, one other staff member, and myself have seen the video. And so
moving forward,
as we go through the hiring process, anybody who winds up on that committee will, in fact, including if it's a board member,
will be required to watch that video state video.
And then a review of the interview process
and
questions to ensure that they greater reflect staff and student needs. Oh.
And then to provide,
professional development, not just books,
but making sure that every year we have offerings for staff, and we can make sure that, all staff,
not just anybody that would be hired of color, all staff, can have offerings that are diversity,
in equity and inclusion related.
You can see down here,
that is the portal
for the State Department of Ed online resources
under resources required on the bottom. And
when we move to the last one, I know I'm going through this quickly, but when we move to the last one then, we look at retention.
The goal there is to ensure new culturally
and racially diverse people are hired and maintain positions in Andover while feeling that we are welcoming and responsive working environment.
So under retention,
it may require us should we hire somebody who says, you know, I actually feel like you are lacking here,
and I don't feel necessarily comfortable speaking with another person since I'm the only person of color that works here. At that point, I think we needed to make a commitment to
where would you feel comfortable because let's get a mentor. Would you feel more comfortable if we called UConn and had a mentor? Would you feel more comfortable? And let them be able to so I have it cited on here where we would get that mentor from because I think that might vary. For example, if was a teacher that was hired that was a gym teacher, well, we may find a gym teacher that's willing to mentor them over and above what we provide for new teachers for the team program. And I think that that would be our responsibility if at that point they didn't necessarily feel that there was a person here that they
were on the same page with. And so that would be new for us
moving forward. Last on there, CREC and EASCON do offer on a regular basis. They do offer resources
for our region. They are our regional educational
resource.
And so we haven't had a need for it, but they certainly do offer it. Some are free, some aren't.
So the
required resource for us then would be, should we have a new person join our staff and they feel as though we don't have enough included, would be to support that person and say whatever it is that they wanted to take through the practice that we certainly are in favor of. So I do feel like this is something that, for now,
is realistic and reasonable. I do think that moving forward,
we would need the feedback from candidates,
from people who were potentially hired,
or from our existing staff who go through
DEI training before we would know what was missing from here. For them to say, you know, you guys didn't think of this.
And then we would annually
be able to adjust our plan.
K?
Thank you, doc. Okay.
>> So we need to vote on this. So
can I have a Malik?
>> You do because when I submitted on Friday, I've already submitted it in my other town. And so what I didn't realize, which is why I said we gotta put on here, is
they
not only ask a question, does your board approve of this, is you have to put the date that the board approved of this. Move to move move to approve the IED policy as presented. Second. Plan. Plan. IED plan. Follow. Thank you. Superintendent's
IED plan as presented.
>> Negative sec. Again. Yeah. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Alright.
700.
Okay. Item CD I second.
Caitlin, can you just tell me who seconded that motion? I'm sorry. Caitlin, Greenhauser.
Thank you. Thanks, Dawn. Sorry about that.
Okay. And then next item is the IED policy,
which We're coming up with Okay. So we're coming up with that. So when will we when do we expect to have something in writing to look at? April. Well, the policy, remember, follows our same procedure, which is first read, second read. Right. Yeah. So April would be a first read. Okay.
So April, it'll be on the April 5.
Okay. So okay. So April.
All right. Item D, the capital projects update,
discussion and possible action.
So
as Val has mentioned,
and there has
in other board meetings about
capital projects, specifically,
you know, to our school.
As you know,
kind of per the town request, we had given them
a letter outlining
our top
three concerns, which was the plumbing,
the
elevator,
and the driveway
the parking lot.
And
we did provide them information regarding the plumbing.
We did provide them information regarding
the
elevator.
Val did get a a quote from the elevator company,
And, obviously, they're they're well aware of the parking lot.
So
in talking with Val about this and to get some better clarification
on exactly,
you know, what
our needs are and what we would like to see versus,
you know, what has been discussed in these town meetings.
I thought that it would be and, again, with with your approval,
I thought it would be a good idea for me to meet with
Jeff McGuire and Mark Brinker
to
nail down exactly what it is that's going to happen here, whether it's the plumbing, whether it's the driveway, whether it's the elevator.
So, you know, with that, I just think it would be a good idea to just have a meeting with with your permission
to to outline all of that and to get from you all what it is you would like
me to ask them
so, again, we have a clearer direction on what it is exactly that's gonna happen.
>> So this is a start. The only question I would have is,
yeah, when we voted on the driveway,
I knew nothing about the elevator or the phone.
>> You know, obviously, to me, bathrooms not working would be the priority. That happened at the end of last year when we had the
>> I mean, I'll I'll be honest. I didn't know anything about the elevator or plumbing until I saw it in that way, which
is a problem.
I'll be honest, that we shouldn't be hearing about concerns
like we have bathrooms that don't work when we're submitting a when it's gonna be decided to do. Like, we need to know that beforehand so we can address it. But,
I mean, I I would prefer, I guess, to Alan Taylor is not here, but Alan Taylor. But it would seem to me, like, the plumbing would be our priority.
Driveway probably the elevator makes me concerned because it's not an issue until it is. And until we have somebody here who's gonna need it and it doesn't work.
And then it gets really expensive. We have somebody here in this Or what yeah. And if it doesn't work, now we're actually violating the law. Mhmm. You know, we're we're we're breaking the law because we're violating ADA, but not giving them access. I mean
Mhmm. Those would be kind of my
I I would wanna ask, I guess, the actual people who work here and get their input, but I I think we also we'll get into this on the liaison thing. We need to find a way so that we're not
waiting until we have problems to hear about. Right? Mhmm.
>> That would be my Okay. Read this. I don't know where Go ahead, Caitlin. Well, I'd like to go around the room. So go ahead, Caitlin. I guess to me,
capital projects in general I mean, I know even when John was here, like, we've talked about asking for some kind of plan or, like, a ledger of where things stand. Would it be appropriate to perhaps discuss, like, a quarterly
capital,
like,
update,
whether that comes from Val or comes from Steve or, like, where that comes from, but just so that we are more I I think aware of those things. I think that will kind of tie in with the liaison role, but I think the the question I'm putting forth now is, number one, do I have your permission to have a meeting with Jeff Maguire and Mark Brinker to clear up confusion?
And if I do have your permission,
what it what do you want me to ask? So that's that's what's on the table. And I think what you're talking about I agree with you. I think that goes along with the liaison and and having that update whether it's monthly or or quarterly. The round robin of between us and the board of finance and the board of selectmen has been
every single time back to we want a plan in place before we're going to do x y z policy or
set up, you know, this account or put money. Like, we want a plan in place. Right. And so And the town there's a plan, I don't I still it's gonna be this cyclical discussion.
But what's on the table, though, is now the driveway, the elevator, you know, and there's just been this discussion and and back and forth with these town meetings. And I know that there's been a lot of confusion.
And my
my offer is to have a meeting with them
>> and and to just Are you looking for a motion on approval the way you do this or just somebody just say no? Sounds like any is there anyone here who doesn't want her to go meet with them? Well, like, I guess it's my it's kind of going away. You said,
Kim, is,
>> like, feel like these meetings that have taken place in the past between,
you know, the the the heads of boards. Right?
They seem to happen and then go nowhere. And I know we have the policy that
Robert and Shannon have been trying to work with.
Like, to me,
like, I just
until we get a
policy in place and how we operate in relation to these types of things,
I think you're just gonna get right back to that whole game of
>> what do you really need for that. I agree with that. Think board of finance made it very clear that they don't want a policy. They're not gonna vote on a policy until we have a very clear capital plan
written out, not just the letter.
That wasn't that's not what Rob and I have been discussing. They're I know that, but that's what Mark like, that's what was discussed in the in the meetings
>> surrounding that. That was discussed at the not this most recent No. One before that. Before that. Yeah. When I was This most recent one, it seemed like what became the most clear was that
>> the idea of what the account was on this on our board of ed side, the envisioning of that was very different from what the town envisioning of it was. Meaning, like, the town would like to put money into that as well towards capital projects, not just a place for us to put leftover money so that we can save it for capital projects. Correct. They want a town to town. Yeah. And that's what they want a policy towards, which is what Robert and I have been working on now to change it. So I I don't I agree with what Michael's saying. Like, I think a meeting's great, but it's very frustrating that meetings continue to occur No. And nothing happens.
>> I agree. I agree. So they're a lot better than that.
>> I agree. I agree. It's every month, turns into every month, and then it's another month and another month. I agree. I agree.
>> Celeste, you did send a letter, though. Mhmm. And it did outline
what the three
top things were that needed to be considered for this budget season.
So you have expressed to them what your top three
items
>> are that need to be What they asked for several times has been, like, a two year plan, a five year plan, a ten year plan.
>> Well, unrealistically, it's good business for us to have. Mhmm. Yeah. Well, we Right. Right. So, like, it's not like this is something that's out right. But I just real quick because we are on this capital on the short term, like, we have bathrooms that don't work. Is that correct? We do now have bathrooms upstairs. Yes. Okay. We have bathrooms in building that don't work. Yep. We need to fix this, and I'm a 100% with you. I've been tooting this one for couple years,
but
I also think we need to get the bathroom fixed,
like, ASAP. So
I personally am okay with her having this meeting and trying to tell them, do the bathroom, then internally, let's get this whatever we need done done to get our plan together and move forward. But I don't think we wanna stop
>> getting this done. I don't know that we need the permission, so to speak, from a meeting between board of selectmen and board of finance.
If we have something in our property that needs to be repaired immediately,
that's not gonna to
me, it's not necessarily a capital improvement. It's a repair
to existing. I mean, when you're talking about plumbing,
better understood. When we're talking about a repair that's
>> addressing I thought that was immediate need. That was when they asked us for our three when they asked the board of ed to provide with their top
things that we wanted done. We included those three things, the elevator, the plumbing, and the driveway.
So
in evaluating that, and, again, we decided to give them the money to do the driveway.
I don't think any of us realized. I didn't I know at that time, and it may not have been an issue at that time. The plumbing was an issue. I think that now does take precedence, so that would make sense for that to be what they focus on, my opinion.
>> I I have one other concern that I'd like you guys to talk about.
That is that I do know because I have followed their meetings.
And this doesn't really have anything to do with us, but it has to do with our building, is that there are plans for upgrades
on the building
that weren't on our list.
They are.
I I would like you guys to be able to address with them
that those have become priorities,
and I'm not saying they shouldn't be. I I mean nothing negative toward
Park Rec.
But is that gonna be then where they say, well, we've already done some stuff to the school. We never asked for them.
>> They'll delete shares. Have it. Like you said, I are Park Rec. And the
fans.
>> And the fans. But if the moment that they say that, then we will. But right now, we're assuming that they're gonna say that and throw it back in our face that they're doing these upgrades to the school. Now we have already but we have already received documentation that that's going to be happening. Well, yeah. But then they're going to do it, but we haven't had them say, well, we're not gonna do this because we've already upgraded your school. Like, they haven't used it in that way. Conversation,
>> though, to have with them about
where are the priorities
for the projects. Because I absolutely agree with you that the number one priority has to be the the fund.
But I do know that the proposed budget because I've watched their meetings. The the proposed budget is to put a $100,000
aside for all project. Yes. And so that would be nothing
else done.
The
$200,000
is what the
what the cost of you know, according to that estimate for the for the plumbing.
>> So, you know, could they talk to you guys about, is that definitely where that one zero three is going? Are they gonna then put a 100? Are you guaranteed the plumbing? That, I did have a question on whether or not that was separate because when I've seen, I know that they made Eric, I believe they've recommended to them that they put a $100,000 into the capital. Yes.
I don't know if that was inclusive or uninclusive, but then the
check that we 1,003.
>> Right. We had sent over, or is that That's separate. That's separate. That's separate then. I think you guys have clarity on that. And,
you know, is the
50,000 that's going toward the gym gonna be considered a school upgrade? I definitely think you need a clarification on on that. Where is that gonna come from separate money?
>> Is that do you know what I mean? Because Oh, I see. It's exactly out of our capital fund, but I I because it's not being requested by the school. No. I thought that was It was tab separate. At least that was my impression. Yeah. That was the way I did it because it's yeah. And Parks and Recap.
Yeah.
And that was
>> So in terms of recapping, like, right, all of us, like, yes, have have a meeting. But I I still stand by saying,
I think it's really important that we have a written
plan for capital improvements. And I think that you can have that meeting, but I would say here and now tonight, like, we need to decide
>> how, who, and have, like, a deadline for when it's be able to have when we over when I Yeah. Then we can
>> because I'm trust me.
What
I'd like to know and what I'm thinking about,
ordinary circumstances,
all things being equal,
that hundred and three thousand was overage
from a budget.
Ordinarily, we would turn it all over until it's back to the town,
and they would do with it as they saw fit.
We also had the option of a 2% account.
How much is in that account right now? $1.84.
$1.75.
>> Yes. Alright. So I thought it was in the audit. $1.75, $1.82, something like that. I'm looking at your enrollment report.
>> I'm looking at your
your projections for the coming years.
I don't know
how you feel about the quantity of students that could possibly
be put in a grade level before you have to break it into two pieces
and hire another staff member.
Here it is,
March.
We're talking from now
through the next school year, all the way to June.
I don't know if you're gonna get an influx of kids at a certain grade level.
What grade level are your kids in? Well Third. She's in third. She's in third. So that's the fourth grade for next year.
And you have a two three combination.
So as
a parent, what would you be comfortable with for a maximum number of students in your
your child's classroom?
I mean,
Is it still on the facilities on capital project?
>> I think he's saying, like, that money potentially should need to go towards something. It might The employee that you didn't anticipate
>> now
because you have either kids
with
major needs that move into this town and are into a particular grade level,
you may need to hire a power.
I'm just looking ahead. I
>> But I don't think with in regards to that account, like, that's really what a, that that would be. Because if if we have an influx of people, that means we also have an influx of taxpayers to the moving into Andover, which point we need to go to them and say that, yeah, we need more. Right. And we can get an appropriation
as far as
you know, I know we had said we had agreed to send the money over the 120 to do the drywall. Mhmm. And,
obviously, we're we're here to do that. Yeah. Now we're now we're sitting here six months, the the reserve, a 103¢.
No
no check, no driveway, no yeah. We might as well have just, you know, taken the past few months, I guess, just not doing. Or just given the money to the town,
>> which, I mean Is that what we're gonna do? I mean, that's I mean, now what happens with the $1.00 3?
>> That money gets returned to the town. You guys have specified to them you want the driveway with it. Right. But that's where you have to have a conversation with them because they have specified at multiple meetings.
They don't intend on using it for the driveway. So that is something that the seven of you guys need to work on with them because you have approved it for that. And And if they say, no. We're using it for something else, that is certainly something that you guys have to talk about with them. Right. Because you're right. You have approved it for that. Right. And the board of finance approved it. Right. Everyone approved it. Everybody approved it. So the fact that they're going back on it and saying that it's not gonna be used for it, that's why a meeting needs to happen to to clear up this confusion. So, Jerry, I just wanna make sure I'm clear on this. So you're saying
that if that's true
I I don't wanna speak for you, so tell me if I'm wrong. Are you saying
that
you would have thought that should have gone into our other reserve then
>> in case something else comes up? If everything were equal. Oh, okay. And it was normal,
and we
didn't ask for a driveway before we knew there was a bathroom problem or No. An elevator problem,
what what would we what would we have? How would we have wanted to proceed? What would we what would we have done? We have a $103,000.
>> It would have been 80 that would have been allowed to go in that account. Saying you're with me. And Right. We would have asked.
>> Right. We would have asked for it to finance. Would put that 80 in. So they could have And the 25 would have gone back to the town. By the way, I did just look in the audit. The balance is $1.74
$7.14.
Frank, what are you thinking?
>> Yeah. I just my mind is still it still goes back to, like, I just
eventually, I just wanna get to a point where we have a very specified process Yes. That is agreed upon
on how to handle these situations. Understood. And I'm frustrated,
which I'm sure some of you or all of you share that frustration
with
countless opportunities and attempts to get there,
still having meetings together, but not seem to really ever make progress on it, which is extremely frustrating to continue
Mhmm. To see that happen.
Yeah. Totally, Brian.
>> So
not having been
completely part of it, but it sounds like we owe something.
So part of this is on us because we owe a capital plan to follow.
Yes. A process needs to be replaced, but it's on us to create this. So
understand there's frustration,
but we are the responsible for the frustration.
So next agenda,
it should say,
write capital plan
And
agree.
In the meantime, yes, let's have a meeting, try to clear up near term,
but
long term, it's on us. So let's get it done.
>> So Brie, to that point,
not that there was never a quote capital plan.
If you look at the last ten years,
the facilities plan has been a plan between the Board of Education and the school,
simply because if you look at the charter,
the charter says that you
guys decide on capital improvements for this building.
You guys, according to the charter, don't go to CIP,
and this is the charter. You guys decide all of those things because you only have an operational budget.
And so
it's not that we owe them,
and I understand that the agreement has been now moving forward that you'd like to share that with the town. Absolutely.
Which is why Celeste's letter did say, hey. We have these three things, and we have to be better now
at saying if we're going to give them a plan. But it wasn't that that plan has been owed to them. It's that they're now saying,
we know you don't have to give it to us, but we'd like you to share it with us. We'd like you to go to CIP.
And policy wise, that's where you guys have to have that conversation.
That's being kind of the obstacle of the charter says that's not the way you do it, and the town is saying, please do it that way. But that's not just we have internally
>> I know and I'm not gonna say we I have asked for a capital plan for since back when
John was here. Yes. And I I got the spreadsheet that he started working on four days before he quit. So
I'm still frustrated with the fact that I don't have
>> you know, we should be able to project. Everything has a usable end of life. We should be able to have an idea of fifteen, twenty years from now, we are going to have to replace a boiler. We're gonna gonna need a roof before we need and all of this stuff should be forecasting.
>> Haven't gotten there and we you are a 100% right. The a lot of the blame is, you know, grab a mirror. Like, I'm I've been on this board for,
what, five years. I
should have driven it more to get it done. And we we as a board, but now is the opportunity, I think, to do it. And you're right. Let's get it done.
>> But you do a capital plan, and that's good. You follow it. And you do everything you're supposed to do. What do you do when there's something
rears its ugly head
of spend? You have a repair that you have to make. It's about $200,000
repair
for a plumbing.
>> Think that's where the idea of having a capital fund Right.
Comes into play. So you have a plan of, like, what you think you're going to need money for, but then the hot water heater blows. And then next I mean water heater blow, but maybe that boiler didn't die Right. When you anticipated it to die. Right. You've been putting money in. This
>> is how you think it's gonna leave. Yeah. I mean, this is how it this isn't like we're creating a new process here. This process is used.
>> Yeah. I do yeah. This is what I do. You know, I forecast
issues, and then sometimes
something happens, but you
you deal with it. But you have your best plan.
>> You try to execute to that plan. And then when something changes But there are two just so we're clear. I think there's two. There's our internal process, which is what I'm kinda talking about, which we need to fix underneath. Secondary is the one that Shannon is working on with Robert, which is that process is still
Right. In process, if we will. So both of those, yeah, are taking, like,
you know, there comes a point where we need to, you know, I can't, you know, get off the pot, I guess. Right. And then my
>> impression, though, is if we come with an internal plan, it is going to go a long way to smooth over those other issues.
So why would we just not do it, I guess? Yeah. And
>> and we met with Steve,
the custodian,
and started that. That's where her information from the letter came from. So we have started that process. It's just gotta move further. Yeah. That's where her three priorities came from was meeting with and Eric was there as well from the town. So that is where we started for her to get that letter done was to start that process. Right. Yeah.
>> Okay. What are we So what are we I don't I I still I still don't I mean, it I still Do you think it's appropriate to I mean, I just I guess that it's just
we all voted. The town voted. The board of finance voted that for that money to go to the driveway, and now the board is selected and saying it's not going to the driveway. And I and I agree with Steve. You know, when I voted on the driveway, I didn't realize that the plumbing was that bad. So,
you know, we have three nonfunctioning bathrooms. We have enrollment that's increasing.
Does it make sense, you know, to to to to to do the the plumbing? But I don't know how that works in terms of when everyone's voted on it to do a driveway.
I don't know how you can go back and say it's not gonna be used for the driveway, and and that's where I get hung up on that everybody voted on it. Do do we then
unvote have to vote and then they vote? You know what I mean? Like, that whole process. Like, is it a whole other voting?
But when it's, you know, it's was made clear that that's what the money was gonna be used for.
And, again, this was my idea to have a meeting. I talked to Val, you know, when this when it was on the agenda, you know, and her and I talked. And,
you know,
and that's what, you know, we had I had kinda come up with. I said, well, you know, can I just meet with them? And
so but if that doesn't make any sense, I mean, I you know, I'm hoping to I'd I'd like to to kinda get an answer on that. Well, I think that I mean, just in general, the other thing that I would point out is that what we voted on
>> was for an amount that is now different. Like, everything about that is now Right. It it it Like, whole doesn't make. It right. It's it's all changed. But, again, how do we and we've encumbered it.
So that's a whole other
>> you know, again, how I think we need to vote to unencumbered.
That would be And then to vote in a separate matter, for one, to
to to otherwise
direct the money.
And it's then we get to the question of, is it our prerogative to do that? Does the board of select I mean, board of finance get to tell you that we can't do that, which is what they've said.
Right.
I don't know. But the plumbing, it
>> gets to a whole issue. Is is plumbing a capital investment and whatnot? Well, we need to repair our plumbing because as you've said, we have three unusable bathrooms. Right. Is that a repair issue? Is it a capital improvement
>> issue? You know? I don't know. Irrespective of that, it also costs double what we have Right. To spend towards it. Right.
So
>> They're
currently, right now, this is what Rob and I have talked about also. They're intending to put it as they're looking through their budget Yeah. A $100,000 into a budget for us. Yes. So that, in addition to the $1.00 3, should be able to meet the plumbing issue.
So that is something that we already talked about that I would want clarification about. Right. But then does it go through CIP? Does it go through all of that?
We're not that this has been the real Right. Sticking point between Robert and my discussions, which is we're not subject to CIP. Right. When we did the prior policy that we approved of, Board of Finance did not approve of because they had a different idea of what the policy should be Right.
We did add CIP review in there that the Board of Finance could then
decide to or not to pay attention to CIP's recommendations.
And I'll just add,
having sat through the meeting with Jay Tuttle a couple weeks ago,
the town does have a very straightforward
you know, he comes to the CIP. Yes. He's required to
to basically present you know, we we have this truck. It has a twenty year, thirty year life expectancy,
and right now, we're at year 17.
So they have a total list of of all of their
equipment and and capital investments,
assets. That is what they would like us to have. Right.
>> Well, we have a list of assets. It's the up part when figuring out how long and Right. Right. Actual value
What's that? We have the annuals of. Right. The one that you know, Shannon, I think you bring up a great point. One, I believe whatever it is we're gonna do with this, we need to involve the auditor or somebody up front to figure out to make sure we do it correctly. It's on 103.
That Oh, if if we decide to Well, what well, however we're gonna do it or if they're if they're gonna use it for something else. I don't want this to be something that because if we voted that it was gonna go for this and they wrote a check for a certain amount, now it's a different amount. Like, how this all works, we need to involve the auditor. It would like in my frame Yeah. If if it's if that check was intended for a specific purpose,
>> right, for it was intended for the parking lot, and now that is not happening, a, because the amount isn't invalid anymore,
wouldn't that check be voided in a sense? Because That's what we were just talking about. The check itself is doesn't exist. Correct. It go it goes back as a surplus. So it yeah. So, I mean, that check is no more. Mhmm.
>> So I understand. Correct. Because that's what I would do. Yeah. It just that's what we just said. It just becomes a surplus. Right. So we turn off everyone through all the unencumbered We just to make sure that we're almost in page with the other forwards from that. So they don't they aren't going, okay. Well, where is that? Are we going to then figure But then but then if it's a surplus,
>> does it have to are we putting
into 2% and then giving the other part back to the town, or are we we requesting
that it goes into
>> the capital
to us. Right. That's what you guys It's not guaranteed to us. I don't know what you gotta do to get it guaranteed to us. You can't. You can't now. State statutes as is the one that So was voted by an incident. Put it in the 2%
and give them the rest.
>> Or we can ask them to put the entire thing in the capital fund. Yeah. Those are the two options. Right. But Oh, the third option is we just give them the money back.
>> So Well, given that we know that our funding cost at least 200,000 No. I'm I'm saying those are the three well, that's what's gonna happen if we don't come up with that. Right. Yes.
Good plan. Right.
>> But I think at a minimum,
having Celeste have a conversation at least with Mark and Jeff to go find out, you know, a, what their intentions are,
you know, discuss possibly even now, like, hey. Well, are they still expecting this?
K. What are like, how are we gonna fix our vote? What do we need to do? Yeah.
>> The last board of select win meeting, I believe it was, if you watched the recording,
they
said something
about wanting Celeste to go to
CIP about
the
product.
>> So maybe that could all be kind of done. Yeah. Figure out whatever the process is so you can end it.
>> Do we, as a board, need to I mean, I know I realized we can't vote on it. Right? Because you didn't rate.
Oh, you wrote possible action. Do we, as a board, need to vote on what we're doing with that 103,000?
>> I I think we need to get clarification
first. Prior to voting. Prior to that. I've heard what other the conversation. And if it's a timing issue, we have to do it is over meeting. Reallocate it from last year's budget yourself
>> because the fiscal year is over. Okay. So it's my understanding from the auditor that that check would go back just like any end of the year for us. Yeah. When you have a surplus,
it either all goes back to the town Yeah. Or you request they go into the 2%, but that's the only thing you guys can do. You can't say, well, we'll give it back to you if we do this with it. If we do Can we can we Oh, we can we we ask them? Can we reset that they put it into the capital? Sure. Slow down. That's right. The only thing you get to do at the end of the year with any surplus is
to say it's already covered for something
or give it back to the account or
ask to put 2% in your 2% level. But we've we've already uncovered it. But But not anymore. But now Because that was
Oh, the entire That is no longer an expenditure.
Okay.
>> But okay. Okay.
Alright.
Okay. So
asking basically the the 103.
So okay. So does it but if we don't even know
I'm just trying to think, like, does it make sense to have this meeting when and and then I I come back to you guys, and then we would
That's why I was asking, like, should we not I get she's saying we can't vote on it, but we still we still are asking one way or the other. Right? There's a choice of where that money goes. Well, there is actually a third option. We could request both.
>> We can only put 80 into the About 2%. 2% and request that they put the balance of the other 23
Capital. Into the capital improvement.
>> Yes. But then
Yeah. Then when you get to the point of, are we doing this plumbing that needs to happen You can still pay it. I don't agree with that. We could pay part from that, and the town will pay the other part? You can pay it out of there. Out of the two out of the 2%? We can do whatever we want with the Yeah. 2% is. Not subject to anybody's any other entities. Right? We could do that. So we could pay we could pay part from the 2% to the town, and then the town pays the plumbing? Well, depends who will receive the project.
You
>> what I mean? Back to the whole The capital improvement fund is on the town side.
>> Our 2% is not. Yeah. So I know. But the question where and I would have this question is, And this is why I think internally, we need a policy that says this is we haven't defined what a capital asset or capital improvement is. In this particular, is this maintenance or capital improvement?
The plumbing broken.
Right. That's not a capital improvement is, you know, a a new,
>> But this is an old, old building. This isn't like a faucet. I mean, this is a $200,000.
I mean And that that's the other thing. It's not a repair. It's it's
it's
It's major. Yeah.
>> And and get because that gets into there are a lot of other things that I have questions about more specifically regarding, like, are we doing RFPs? Are we going, like, what do we have a threshold for those? In which point, we get so we get competitive pricing. And what and who and my concern has always been, and I've said this,
we don't have
like, no offense. It didn't look when you submitted your resume and we were hiring superintendent and go, okay. How much building experience did you have? Know, how many air conditioners did she install when we tailor the same thing and don't really care how good she is with a wrench?
They have those people on that side.
Yeah. So finding a way to engage them is beneficial to us
to make sure that a,
when we write the scope of work because I will tell you right now, any contractor on the planet is going to do exactly what that says and not a damn thing more.
Yeah. That it makes sense that it's not you know, as much as you would write a grant for something else, and it's somebody who knows about plumbing that's writing the scope if it's $200,000.
And then all of the things that cover us and need to be covered are in there. And who do we have right now if we do these kind of things internally
that we're going to lean on to do that? And I like Steve.
I don't know if Steve's like that guy that can do that for us. Yeah. So I I just want I would like us, because I think it's financially responsible thing to do, to engage resources available to us, which happen to be, for us, the town.
That's my skill.
Well, CIP is meeting next Thursday.
>> Okay. So I can absolutely
depending on what you wanna do and the timing of the I just share a meeting. I can bring this issue to CIP
and get their input also.
But
>> I Is she going have him working? Yeah. You anybody can come to see if he
Okay.
>> I understand. I I like the idea of doing, like, that more official capacity
at a public meeting
where
these issues could be brought up and talked about
Yeah. Just for even transparency purposes.
I I I like
that approach.
>> Alright. You want to hear on both for me? I mean, yeah, again, this is just I'm just trying to get some clarification and, you know, confusion.
So, I mean, that was that was my my goal. But
but I guess I just don't understand what's gonna happen next Thursday. I'm I'm still lost. I
I've there's just a lot of we're I think we're talking about a lot of things here, but what what are we gonna do with the one zero three? And and
so, I mean, I'm I'm happy to go to the CIP meeting, but, also, according to the charter, we don't have to go through CIP. So I you know? It's
So
>> okay. That's fine. I'll go to the CIP meeting, and we can kinda talk about Okay. Alright. And that's what was it? Next Thursday? Next Thursday. Okay. Yep. Yep.
>> We're all gonna be in Eric's office or the community. Okay. Okay.
>> And then will you guys just tell me if something has to go on the dollar April meeting for that meeting, please? That's at 07:00, Shannon? Yes. Okay. Yeah.
>> And we'll And I'll get it on mute. It's open to the public. Correct? Yep. So I will try unattended. It's not Zoom. It's in okay. Yep. Okay.
>> Alright.
Moving right along here. Item e, liaison roles.
Okay. So
I thank you very much to Caitlin, to Mike and Terry, to Brie,
to Steve, Shannon. If you could just you're the policy and the the CIP
Thank you. Liaison.
So what what you have in front of you is what,
again, what Caitlin
and and Mike and Jerry and Brie and
Steve got to name. And, again, this is just kind of furthering,
you know, our discussion about really kind of outlining
and getting a a better idea and understanding of what it is We can do do as this lee as one
of these liaisons.
So
rather than kind of
looking at this and kind of picking it apart tonight because, you know, you're just seeing it for the first time, what I would like for,
you know, for Mike and Jerry and for Brie and for Caitlin and Steve and Mhmm. Shannon at our April meeting is to kind of present
present what you
proposed.
And then we can talk about it and
decide,
you know, just decide on the language and, you know, just keeping in mind,
you know, you're a liaison for the Board of Ed.
You're not
how do I wanna say this? Like acting you're you're not take you're not acting in the capacity, you know, and and representing the board of ed. You're you're it's a liaison,
and you're you you're representing the board of ed. You're not representing, you know, the town.
So,
again, take a look at these.
And then at the April meeting, we'll have more time to kind of
look at them and really kinda nail down the language in these. So then going forward,
when we have somebody new and they've been selected to be the communication liaison or whatever, we can, you know, give them this information and say, okay. This is what, you know, this is what the role means.
>> Good?
Jen? I just I
had a question with regard to the use of liaisons. Yep.
>> Really, what we had previously called it is,
for lack of a better term, like, point person Okay.
So that if anybody in the community or whatever had a question in that regard Yep. That was to whom we sent the questions. Okay. So I don't know if it's really any late time call or
Who is it? I don't know. And and, you know, like, we I'm really late down to CIP, which means I oversee IP Right. To get information and share information
>> and whatnot. But We used that word two years ago, but I think what Celeste just said was to clarify it. It's a liaison to the school community,
not to the other two boards.
In your case, the board picks a liaison Right. Their CIP.
>> Okay. Got it. I think in our like, we're because we are too small to have committee. We're replacing committee. Well, right. Exactly. Subcommittee
liaison are basically our subcommittee. Committee chair. Yeah. Right. It's your in one one main committee. Subcommittees would have three members. I hope that was just Yeah. Real life. Three every month? Yeah.
>> So They do it, ma'am. So if
So, Shannon, if you can just get to me so at the next board meeting, so for everybody, you know, if
again, you know, just present what what you have thought this is, and then we can talk about it. And then hopefully, really kind of get a better idea and understanding and then put it in writing as what it is those roles are. Alright?
Good? Alright.
Okay. Comments from the public.
Nothing.
Okay. My husband says that we should adjourn. Is
he making the motion?
>> So is my husband. So
okay. So are there any other other action items?
I just say no. Okay. Alright. Upcoming board meetings. So the next one is
April 17. And so far, I have written down items for next meeting is to to discuss the fourth classroom for the pre k Yes. To present a liaison,
language. Shouldn't it be April 10?
Spring break. It's April
vacation. That's why we moved into the following. Yep.
That's I have the pre k four classroom, the liaisons. Does that anything else in my I have the policy. Yep. Yep. The okay. The The
>> read on that. First read on the k change.
Oh. Policy? If we don't have that right now. Yep. Hopefully, we'll have it. Yeah. These Okay. Potentially on their CIP results to add for discussion. Yeah. Okay. Okay. And then for Terry, transfers and email them prior to so that you could vote on them if she has them. Okay.
And
>> then under,
financial report, the new thing will say update on corrective action plan.
Yes, please. Anything else? Capital and plan.
Policy. Yeah. Policy.
>> Yes. Will you have an update for us? Okay. With that. I don't mean policy. I mean, plan. Oh, the our internal plan. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I think we need to get that on that. I I think that that is something well, I know if you're okay with Duchenne, you've got the other ones. Yep. I I can work on it as
some of these liaison or whatever. I think that would be Okay. Something that I can start at least to draft our internal policy. And I need to check with I think there might be might have something in there. Not not policy. Not no. I mean plan. I mean, like, a two year or five year or ten year. Like, with the town And that's what you were on this kind of assets or Right. They did they did policy. You know? No.
But that's why I'm is the echo. Okay.
>> But definitely Can we, like, an act like, having the actual plan? I mean,
a plan to have the plan. Like, to give ourselves deadlines. Yep. So good. Yep. Mhmm. Exactly. Okay.
Okay.
Can I get a motion to adjourn?
Move to adjourn. Alright. Second.
>> Second. Jerry, all in favor? Aye. Aye. 700.
Thank you. Thank you, everyone. And 1010.
Thank you.
Alright.
Brianna.